[Music]
you know if there was an award for best
actor among swindlers and crooks they
would all have lots of prizes and
trophies sometimes even the most common
situations can be thoroughly planned by
scammers so that you will have no idea
that it's all fake here are some of the
newest tricks that crooks use in big
cities
remember that forewarned is forearmed
and it's always better to be aware of
all the dangers that may wait for you in
the street what's more a bit later in
the video you'll find an amazing trick
that will be able to protect you from
any criminal so let's get started
dream job many people would probably
like to get a dream job and move to
another country you post your CV on a
foreign website and wait for a miracle
and you might really receive a call or a
letter where a manager tells you that
your CV is great you've got this job and
your salary will be even higher than you
have expected
what's more they promise that the
company will help you get your visa and
they will provide you with an apartment
for free oh wow you may even receive an
agreement and a link to the company's
website but you'll also be asked to pay
additional expenses related to your
relocation to another country or you'll
have to buy job related tutorials that
will be supposedly paid back on your
first paycheck of course you're ready to
spend a few hundred dollars to achieve
your dream you might even get your visa
but when you arrive at the country of
your potential employment you realize
that the company you've been planning to
work for doesn't exist or even worse
that it exists but no one there has ever
heard of you
however there can be something even more
dangerous than losing several hundred
dollars or wasting money on a visa and
airplane tickets the thing is that such
scammers can be after your personal
information they may even demand from
you your social security number bank
information or even credit card
information that's what happened to an
Australian man who had applied for a
vacancy on a website the email he got in
reply and the application form were so
convincing that he sent his passport
copy tax file number and a copy of his
driver's license without hesitation
after that the employers just
disappeared man you've got to be super
cautious if someone asks you for your
personal information this can be one of
the worst forms of scams and identity
theft what to do well remember that even
a perfect CV doesn't guarantee anything
first of all you have to successfully
pass several job interviews and prove
you are suitable for the job and
secondly remember that no one can make
you pay for anything in advance or
demand your personal information always
check out information about companies as
well as their contact details and the
bad news is hey this isn't the only new
scheme criminals use to trick their
potential victims nowadays would you
fall for the following scams dropped
money a boy comes up to you in the
street and says that you've dropped your
money you're confused but suppose that
this may be true you take the money
thank the boy and go away suddenly his
parents come up to you and claim that
you've stolen the boys money when he
just wanted to make change you're
shocked and the parents ask you to give
the money back and compensate moral
damage this scheme first appeared in
2012 but people report increasingly more
cases with every passing year what to do
well keep in mind that there's just a
tiny chance that someone will give you
the money that you just dropped but if
this situation happens first you should
check whether your money's actually gone
never take money or other items a wallet
or a ring if they're not yours if this
type of thing has still happened to you
go to any public place with security
cameras and call the police
purchases stolen from under your nose
and we're not talking about nose rings
here scam detector website responsible
for exposing more than a thousand frauds
warns about another scam imagine that
you've just bought a TV and now you're
on your way to the car
a security guard stops you near the exit
to check your stuff and the receipt
suddenly a sales associate comes up to
you saying that they've sold you a
damaged TV by mistake they ask you to
come to the warehouse and get a new one
while the security guard watches your
purchase you follow the associate but
suddenly they disappear and so does the
security guard with your belongings Wow
what to do check the items you want to
buy before you take them away and never
leave your purchases with strangers it's
recommended to take your friends with
you if you're going to buy an expensive
item lottery victory the Federal Trade
Commission informs people especially US
citizens about a scam based on winning
in a lottery you're offered a free
lottery ticket in a store you scratch it
and realize they you're a winner we to
get your prize you have to call a phone
number provided on the ticket you call
the number wait a few minutes on the lie
and say the confirmation number found on
your winning ticket and your personal
data
an operator says they'll call you when
the prize is ready
but you never get a prize and you never
receive the money that you spent calling
that premium line back what's more a bit
later you find out that these four
minutes on the phone call that's an
average duration have cost you a fortune
in addition in most cases criminals sell
your information to telemarketers so
what do you do
don't take free lottery cards if you
decide to take one and you win check the
information about this lottery on the
internet before calling in particular
don't trust those lottery scratch
tickets that ask you to call a number
that starts with 1 888 how about the
hungry ATM you probably know that
scammers use special devices that can
read your card number at the same time a
tiny camera records your PIN after that
criminals have no problems with using
this information to empty your account
but you have to be even more careful
nowadays robbers have started putting a
piece of tape in the card slot and cards
get stuck in there do you think that the
ATM is broken but in fact crooks just
take your card and walk away while
you're calling the bank to inform them
about this problem many ATMs in Asia for
example have warnings on their screens
suggesting that you should first check
the card slot to make sure there's
nothing out of the ordinary there what
to do it's better to withdraw cash at a
bank where people work you can even ask
the bank cashier to help you if you
would draw money at a stand alone ATM
you should check the card slot and the
keypad if an ATM has eaten your card
don't leave
call the bank via the hotline and block
your card via a mobile app if possible
electronic pickpocketing modern
technologies let us pay for our
purchases with our cards or smart phones
in just one time
scammers have special devices that help
read information in your electronic
wallet Wow
they just have to touch your gadget or a
credit card to get access to your
e-wallet recently there has been
reported an alarming increase in this
type of scam what to do it's recommended
to buy a special wallet that offers scan
protection it's called an RFID wallet
you can also set a daily spending limit
on your smartphone so you don't lose all
your money in a few seconds free perfume
samples well you make your way out of a
shopping mall when a pretty girl usually
stylish Lee dressed comes up to you and
asked if you would like a sample spray
she sprays the perfume on your wrist you
like it smell and the woman wants to
spread on your neck however instead of
your neck she accidentally sprays the
perfume in your eyes you're blinded and
suddenly a man runs up to you and steals
your wallet and bag what to do keep in
mind that these types of salespeople
only work inside shopping malls try to
avoid strangers offers on the streets
even if they're really interesting free
Wi-Fi the Federal Trade Commission asks
you to be careful when trying to access
the Wi-Fi in public spots this trick is
extremely widespread but some people
still remain unaware of criminal schemes
scammers create free networks with the
name of the mall or hotel that you might
try to connect to first sometimes such a
network requires your personal data so
crooks get access to your personal or
bank information and passwords what to
do if you're in a public place
ask the helpdesk if they have any free
Wi-Fi networks if you really need access
to the Internet
it's better to go to a cafe or a
restaurant and use reputable networks
and here's our bonus a simple life hack
against burglars
burglars often pretend to be members of
various services for example pest
control services that come to inspect
your house in reality they thoroughly
look for different things that can be
stolen later what to do don't open the
door if you're not expecting anyone to
come over if the members of a certain
organization do come you should call the
company and clarify whether these people
work there or not and here's one simple
but super effective life hack by a
police uniform and put it near your
front door to deter burglars and finally
a super duper simple hack to avoid
getting ripped off electronically just
use cash yeah that's too simple isn't it
just might work though so have you heard
about new scams crooks employ to make
you part with your money Pat tell us in
the comments below and don't forget to
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]